chore: add caching patterns section (#954)
momentohq/public-dev-docs: docs/cache/patterns/database-caching.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 10
title: Database Caching Pattern
sidebar_label: Database Caching
description: Learn best practices using Momento cache with your database
keywords:
 - development patterns
 - momento
 - cache
 - database
 - enterprise patterns
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import ReferenceCard from '@site/src/components/ReferenceCard';

# Use Momento Cache to speed up your database

> Using caching alongside your database can significantly improve the performance and availability of your application. By storing frequently accessed data in a cache, you can reduce the load of the application on the database, which in turn, leads to faster response times, higher availability, and lower costs.

Reviewer: Using caching -> Using a cache

There are multiple ways to use a cache in conjunction with a database. The 2 main patterns are `read-aside` and `write-through` caching. In this guide, we will explore these patterns and how to implement them using Momento Cache.

:::info

> With any caching pattern, it is important to tune the [TTL (Time to Live)](../learn/how-it-works/cache-eviction-vs-expiration) for cached items. The TTL determines how long the data will be stored in the cache before it is evicted. Setting an appropriate TTL can help you ensure that the data in the cache is up-to-date. Picking a TTL that is too short can result in frequent cache misses, while a TTL that is too long can result in stale data being served. Determing what the TTL should be is dependent on your application, data being cached, and how that data is used.

Reviewer: * help you ensure that the data -> help you ensure the data
* make "frequent cache misses" a link to this blog: https://www.gomomento.com/blog/the-biggest-miss-in-your-cache-hit-rate
* Determing what the TTL should be -> Determining the appropriate TTL (also note the typo in **Determing**)

:::

## Read-aside caching

Read-aside caching is a pattern where the application first checks the cache for the data it needs. If the data is not found in the cache, the application fetches the data from the database and stores it in the cache for future use. This pattern is useful for read-heavy applications where the same data is accessed frequently.

### Advantages of read-aside caching

* **Faster reads**: Assuming a high cache hit rate, most requests won't need to hit the database, resulting in faster reads.
* **Higher availability**: Read-aside caching reduces the load on the database, which can help improve the availability of the application.

![Diagram of read-aside caching with Momento](@site/static/img/cache/patterns/read-aside-caching.png)

### Read-aside caching with Momento

Momento makes it easy to implement read-aside caching in your application. You can use the `get` API to fetch data from the cache and the `set` API to save data in the cache.

<Tabs>

>   <TabItem value="node" label="Node.js">

Reviewer: Please add code samples for Python, Go, Java, and .NET that functionally do the same thing

### Advantages of write-through caching

* **Higher cache hit rates**: Since the cache is kept up to date with the database, most requests to the cache should result in a cache hit.
* **Lower latency**: Higher cache hit rates means less calls to the database, resulting in lower latency.

![Diagram of write-through caching with Momento](@site/static/img/cache/patterns/write-through-caching.png)

### Write-through caching with Momento

Here is an example of how you can implement write-through caching with Momento:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="node" label="Node.js">

  ```javascript
    await database.set(itemKey, itemValue) // write data to database
    await momento.set(cacheName, itemKey, itemValue) // write data to cache
    return itemValue // return data
  ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Disadvantages of write-through caching

> * **Infrequently accessed data**: If data is written to the cache that is infrequently accessed, it can result in unnecessary resources needed for the cache, and increased costs. This can be mitigated by using a heuristic to determine which data should be cached.

Reviewer: I would also add these two disadvantages:
* Performance Overhead: Since every write operation needs to be performed twice (once in the cache and once in the persistent storage), there is additional overhead compared to other caching patterns. This can lead to increased latency and reduced throughput for write operations, especially if the underlying storage is relatively slow or experiences high load.
* Potential for Consistency Issues: While write-through caching aims to maintain consistency between the cache and persistent storage, there is still a possibility of consistency issues arising due to factors such as network failures, storage system failures, or race conditions. Proper error handling and retry mechanisms need to be implemented to mitigate these risks.

---
sidebar_position: 10
title: Database Caching Pattern
sidebar_label: Database Caching
description: Learn best practices using Momento cache with your database
keywords:
 - development patterns
 - momento
 - cache
 - database
 - enterprise patterns
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import ReferenceCard from '@site/src/components/ReferenceCard';
import { SdkExampleTabs } from "@site/src/components/SdkExampleTabs";
// This import is necessary even though it looks like it's un-used; The inject-example-code-snippet
// plugin will transform instances of SdkExampleTabs to SdkExampleTabsImpl
import { SdkExampleTabsImpl } from "@site/src/components/SdkExampleTabsImpl";

# Use Momento Cache to speed up your database

> Using a caching alongside your database can significantly improve the performance and availability of your application. By storing frequently accessed data in a cache, you can reduce the load of the application on the database, which in turn, leads to faster response times, higher availability, and lower costs.

Reviewer: The beginning of this has mixed up tense. It should read "Using a cache"

Author: o whoops that was a mistake

> Using a caching alongside your database can significantly improve the performance and availability of your application. By storing frequently accessed data in a cache, you can reduce the load of the application on the database, which in turn, leads to faster response times, higher availability, and lower costs.

Author: ```suggestion
Using a cache alongside your database can significantly improve the performance and availability of your application. By storing frequently accessed data in a cache, you can reduce the load on the database, leading to faster response times, higher availability, and lower costs.
```
